omri.kaplan, etzion.asaf
Omri Kaplan (20043895), Asaf Etzion (20020272)
EX: 2


FILES:
uthreads.cpp- the implementation of the user level threads library.
uthreads.h- the header file of the library
makefile- creates the uthreads library from the cpp file above, compresses to
          tar.
README- this file.


REMARKS:


Theoretical Questions:
1. As discussed in class, Google’s Chrome browser creates new process for each
tab. Would the same benefit have been achieved by creating a new kernel level
thread for each tab? What are the advantages and disadvantages of creating new
process (instead of kernel level thread)? (2.5 pts)

When creating a process for each tab, we gain stability because if one tab
crashes, the other tabs won’t necessarily be forced to end.
Closing each tab is easier that way, because of there is no memory sharing.
And there is no need to check if other tabs use the memory resources of the
closing tab. Another aspect is security, when separating the tabs to
different processes, we gain isolation in memory resources, thus
strengthening the security of each tab from malicious acts.


2. a. Open an application (for example, Shotwell in CS computers).
Use ‘ps –A’ command and extract the application pid (process id).
b. Open a Shell and type ‘kill pid’.
c. Explain which interrupts and signals are involved during the command
execution, what triggered them and who should handle them. In your answer
refer to keyboard, OS, shell (in which you type the kill command) and the
application you just killed (2.5 pts).

The OS gets HW interrupt from the keyboard. A special handler in the OS knows
the shell is waiting for the keyboard input, and sent them to the shell. When
executing the "kill" command in the shell, the "kill" process, sends
SIGTERM to the running process (in this case Shotwell) using it's pid. The
process get the signal and try to release resources and terminates.


3. What is the difference between ‘real’ and ‘virtual’ time? Give one
example of using each (2.5 pts).

Real time is a timer that counts the time passes while the whole system is
running. If the system is working for X time, real time will indicate that.
Virtual time is relative to a process. It is the time passed while the
process is running. When the process is preempted by the OS, this time
pauses until the next time it will run again.
Examples: Use real time if you want to make an alarm clock that makes sound
after waiting a certain amount of time. That way you will get the alarm after
this amount of time passed in the real world.
Use virtual time if you want a certain process to perform a task for a
predefined amount of time. That way the time will count down only when the
process is executing.


4. a. When creating a new process using fork command, which of the following
are common among the parent and the child processes? i. Stack ii. Heap iii.
Global variables

The common part between the parent and the child process is the Text memory,
where the code of the program is held, and where the global variables are.
For that reason iii. Global Variables is common between the parent and child
process.


b. What is pipe? Why is there a need for it? (2.5 pts).

A pipe is a special file with FIFO semantics: it can be written sequentially
(by one process) and read sequentially (by another). The data is buffered,
but is not stored on disk. Also, there is no option to seek to the middle, as
is possible with regular files. When the buffer is full, the writing process
is blocked by the OS. If the buffer is empty, the reading process is blocked.
There is a need for pipes in order to communicate between processes.